Hello everybody and welcome to this lecture.
Well we've had a look at this old wing geometry briefly in the past but now we get to use it as an anchor.
So we're going to revisit it and learn how to dissolve geometry from our model in a meaningful way that
isn't wasteful.
Let's find out more.
Okay.
So we start off with our chess piece as it is at the moment.
Let's go ahead select it and go into edit mode and we see that we've got an awful lot of geometry just
going to close down the properties panel and sole shelf.
Now we can go ahead and start dissolving some of that so that we end up with a much cleaner bits of
geometry and we can do it one bit at a time we can select a face loop that hole down old and select
a face loop running round if we had face select turned on there we go or we can select individual edges
and work along all we can do things in bulk so I can hold down ALT and shift and select multiple edges
at the same time once I've done that I can go X and I've got the option here to dissolve so I'll remove
those edges as if they never existed.
You don't want to delete those edges if you do that you end up with this kind of shell left.
So we don't want that we want to actually dissolve them and what the dissolving will do is remove the
edges but leave faces in their place and you can see here it says it merges those faces together in
certain circumstances you may want to dissolve faces but that's not applicable in this case.
We're not mold merging multiple faces into one but we do want to dissolve edges what does it do.
Well it removes that extra geometry so that's moved remove this horizontal geometry and we'll have a
look at the vertical geometry in a nother lecture because there's several bits of it.
There must be a quick way of selecting it so let's have a look down the rest of our model and the key
thing here is selecting which parts to remove and also understanding that you can't always go back to
the original shape.
Now this is great if you've downloaded a model or you've been given a model and you want to make it
low poly.
Now of course there are there is the decimate modifier as well that can lower the polygon count over
model but it doesn't work in a very uniform way this way we have complete control over it so we can
pick and choose what we remove and we will have to alter our topology and rejig things around afterwards.
I'm sure one thing that we can never recover that we had before is a flat surface going all the way
down to the base because now we've added the bevel in whatever we do if we remove this loop and this
loop from the equation so X and dissolve edges you notice it now comes in.
So that's a case that we can't get back to our original shape.
So another example would be even though we can select this age loop running around our model here if
we had done an even division.
This is fine if we had done an odd division this edge would have been replaced by a face in the middle
and then we would have lost exactly how wide it was around.
So it's now time to practice that skill with your challenge okay.
So hopefully quite a straightforward challenge for you I'd like you to remove all unnecessary edge loops
from the base itself and after you've done that if you feel it's necessary fix up any geometry if necessary
there may be the fact that the base curves in at the bottom then select the edge loop around the base
and just widen it out again if that's the look you want to go for pause video now and give that a go
Hello everybody and welcome back let's hope on over into blender and remove all unnecessary edge loops
from our base okay everybody welcome back so we've got a couple of options and choices here as always
there's not really going to be right or wrong the first thing I want to do is remove the unnecessary
edge loops there is a workflow order here my staff is scaling things before I remove them I wouldn't
really know what the end shape was like because there's extra geometry here already shaping it.
So let's think we want to keep this edge loop here we want to keep this one here and I'm gonna do this
one here and then just move it around so it's in the right place it's already the right width I want
to keep.
So there's a couple of options here I can select the ones I want to keep and then invert the selection
I don't think that's gonna work too well in this case I think oh selects loads of other edges that I
also don't want to select so I'm going to go ahead and select these two here then these two here and
that one and then this and these two.
Okay so I'm going to group dissolve them.
So X and then dissolve edges.
Now once I've gone ahead and dissolve those edges you can see straight away we've got our basic shape
back again and I'm going to work from the bottom upwards so I'm going to select this bottom edge loop
and make it wider and select this one.
Impressed GZ and just shift its ups I'm not changing anything about it apart from its position must
select this one and also move it up and scale it in on a scale t massively so I can see my reference
material and then bring it back out to around their this part here.
And when I pressed g g twice and shift it up and then scale its outs and then this bit here this is
the one I'm definitely gonna have to keep roughly the same so I'm going to press G.G. twice to slide
the edge up.
Now it's just a matter of maybe scaling this top one out slightly and this one in slightly to make sure
we've got some change in gradient as it goes up there.
Okay I think that's pretty good we've removed all the edge loops that we didn't need.
So we've got our basic shape back again.
Perfect.
The Alpha thing that's we now have to do is of course remove these vertical ones but that will be in
the following lecture.
But for now I think we've got this back to a low poly state that I like and you'd be right in thinking
there are several ways that you could do this if you approach it in a different way.
I'd love to hear how you approached it.
You may have even said you know what Mike.
It's gonna be too much work to remove all of this geometry.
I'm gonna start again.
You know what.
That's a valid point there will be times in your modelling where you just have to throw out a model
and start again because trying to repair it is a pain in the backside.
In this case we're practicing some key skills so it's okay to go through the motions but thinking about
your workflow in advance might have solved this issue but that's it for this lecture and I'll see you
all over in the next one.